[Term Entry] PyTorch Tensors .rand() (#5050)
Codecademy/docs: content/pytorch/concepts/tensors/terms/rand/rand.md

---
Title: 'rand()'
Description: 'rand() function returns a desired size tensor filled with the random values that generated from uniform distribution in the range [0,1).'

Subjects:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'Machine Learning'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-py-torch-and-neural-networks'
  - 'py-torch-for-classification'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'learn-python-3'
---

**.rand()** .rand() is used to return a tensor of the desired size, filled with random numbers generated from a uniform distribution in the range [0, 1), where the endpoint value is not included (exclusive), and all numbers in this range have an equal probability of being chosen.

## Syntax

`.rand()` in PyTorch is part of the `torch` package and the syntax shown below:

```pseudo
torch.rand(*size, *, generator=None, out=None, dtype=None, layout=torch.strided, device=None requires_grad=False, pin_memory=False)

```

> `torch.rand()` take one parameter `size` which represent the shape of the tensor that wish to create. It can create a tensor with one, two, or more dimensions.
> 
> Meanwhile, `torch.rand()` have other seven optional arguments that can be used to customize the tensor if needed.
> 
> - `generator` is used for generating number for sampling.
> - `out`, to store the output into existing tensor (if there is any).
> - `dtype` is used to customize the data type of the output.
> - `layout`, to specify how Tensor is stored in memory.
> - `device`, to specify where the tensor will be created.
> - `requires_grad`, to record the operation of the tensor.
> - `pin_memory` is used for allocating the tensor in the pinned memory.

Reviewer: Modifications:

- Let's change the sentences a bit
- Let's convert commas after the parameters into colons
- Let's change the parameter descriptions a bit

```suggestion
The `.rand()` function takes one required parameter `size`, which represents the shape of the tensor that is to be created. It can create a tensor with one, two, or more dimensions.

Meanwhile, there are seven other optional parameters that can be used with it to customize the tensor if needed:

- `generator`: Used for generating a number for sampling.
- `out`: Stores the output into existing tensor (if there is any).
- `dtype`: Used to customize the data type of the output.
- `layout`: Specifies how the tensor is stored in the memory.
- `device`: Specifies where the tensor will be created.
- `requires_grad`: Records the operation of the tensor.
- `pin_memory`: Used for allocating the tensor in the pinned memory.
```

## Example

> The example below demonstrates how the `size` parameter can be applied to create three different types of tensors. `tensor1D` is a one-dimensional tensor, or vector, with a size of 3; `tensor2D` is a two-dimensional tensor, typically called a matrix; and `tensor3D` is a three-dimensional tensor.

Reviewer: Let's change the introduction for the example a bit:

```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how the `size` parameter can be applied to the `.rand()` function to create three different types of tensors. Among these tensors, `tensor1D` is a one-dimensional tensor or vector with a size of 3; `tensor2D` is a two-dimensional tensor, typically called a matrix; and `tensor3D` is a three-dimensional tensor:
```

```py

> import torch
> 
> # Create a one-dimensional tensor of size three.
> tensor1D = torch.rand(3)
> print(tensor1D)
> 
> # Create a two-dimensional tensor of size five by five.
> tensor2D = torch.rand(5, 5)
> print(tensor2D)
> 
> # Create a three-dimensional tensor of three by five by five tensor
> tensor3D = torch.rand(3, 5, 5)
> print(tensor3D)
> 

Reviewer: Let's change the code block a bit:

```suggestion
import torch

# Create a one-dimensional tensor of size 3
tensor1D = torch.rand(3)
print(tensor1D)

# Create a two-dimensional tensor of size 5 by 5
tensor2D = torch.rand(5, 5)
print(tensor2D)

# Create a three-dimensional tensor of size 3 by 5 by 5
tensor3D = torch.rand(3, 5, 5)
print(tensor3D)
```

```

> The outputs of `tensor1D`, `tensor2D`, and `tensor3D` are shown below, respectively.
> 
> **Please note** that the result may not be exactly the same as the one displayed below, due to random number generation.
> 
> `tensor1D`:
> 
> ```shell
> tensor([0.4581, 0.8923, 0.9110])
> ```
> 
> `tensor2D`:
> 
> ```shell
> tensor([[0.9166, 0.4592, 0.1805, 0.5239, 0.4623],
>         [0.8937, 0.9080, 0.9411, 0.5834, 0.8225],
>         [0.4368, 0.9289, 0.7732, 0.7876, 0.5329],
>         [0.2059, 0.1736, 0.4619, 0.4613, 0.2558],
>         [0.7025, 0.7887, 0.0750, 0.7822, 0.7054]])
> ```
> 
> `tensor3D`:
> 
> ```shell
> tensor([[[0.7478, 0.4375, 0.9769, 0.3897, 0.9407],
>          [0.9649, 0.6459, 0.7927, 0.1902, 0.9625],
>          [0.1942, 0.4772, 0.5795, 0.5631, 0.1460],
>          [0.9176, 0.5342, 0.1067, 0.1989, 0.9478],
>          [0.2999, 0.2278, 0.8297, 0.4244, 0.2445]],
> 
>         [[0.0626, 0.1151, 0.2487, 0.0667, 0.9877],
>          [0.2304, 0.8230, 0.7293, 0.6631, 0.9981],
>          [0.3059, 0.0967, 0.4872, 0.8695, 0.2324],
>          [0.6734, 0.6645, 0.8859, 0.0637, 0.7380],
>          [0.3292, 0.3411, 0.0896, 0.2175, 0.4013]],
> 
>         [[0.2818, 0.3043, 0.1920, 0.2259, 0.5281],
>          [0.2549, 0.5776, 0.6986, 0.3627, 0.7794],
>          [0.7877, 0.7343, 0.9829, 0.8692, 0.5039],
>          [0.7503, 0.5880, 0.6443, 0.8743, 0.0187],
>          [0.9316, 0.5449, 0.4706, 0.1604, 0.7445]]])
> ```
> 
> Though one- and two-dimensional tensors are well-known, there are instances in machine learning where a three-dimensional tensor is essential.

Reviewer: Modifications:

- Let's merge the outputs into a single output
- Let's change the introduction for the output a bit
- Let's move the note from before the output to after the output
- Let's start the note with `> Note:` as notes should be started this way
- Let's change the note text and the last sentence a bit

````suggestion
Here is the output for the above example:

```shell
tensor([0.4581, 0.8923, 0.9110])

tensor([[0.9166, 0.4592, 0.1805, 0.5239, 0.4623],
        [0.8937, 0.9080, 0.9411, 0.5834, 0.8225],
        [0.4368, 0.9289, 0.7732, 0.7876, 0.5329],
        [0.2059, 0.1736, 0.4619, 0.4613, 0.2558],
        [0.7025, 0.7887, 0.0750, 0.7822, 0.7054]])

tensor([[[0.7478, 0.4375, 0.9769, 0.3897, 0.9407],
         [0.9649, 0.6459, 0.7927, 0.1902, 0.9625],
         [0.1942, 0.4772, 0.5795, 0.5631, 0.1460],
         [0.9176, 0.5342, 0.1067, 0.1989, 0.9478],
         [0.2999, 0.2278, 0.8297, 0.4244, 0.2445]],

        [[0.0626, 0.1151, 0.2487, 0.0667, 0.9877],
         [0.2304, 0.8230, 0.7293, 0.6631, 0.9981],
         [0.3059, 0.0967, 0.4872, 0.8695, 0.2324],
         [0.6734, 0.6645, 0.8859, 0.0637, 0.7380],
         [0.3292, 0.3411, 0.0896, 0.2175, 0.4013]],

        [[0.2818, 0.3043, 0.1920, 0.2259, 0.5281],
         [0.2549, 0.5776, 0.6986, 0.3627, 0.7794],
         [0.7877, 0.7343, 0.9829, 0.8692, 0.5039],
         [0.7503, 0.5880, 0.6443, 0.8743, 0.0187],
         [0.9316, 0.5449, 0.4706, 0.1604, 0.7445]]])
```

> Note: The result may not be exactly the same as the one displayed above, due to random number generation.

Though one and two-dimensional tensors are well-known, there are instances in machine learning where a three-dimensional tensor is essential.
````
